Good afternoon, everyone,
and welcome to the
Mac OS X Server State of the Union.
We've got some great product
updates for Mac OS X Server that
we want to share with you today.
But first, before we do that,
I want to do a quick recap of some
recent updates we've had in the
server and storage product line.
Over the past few months,
we've made many updates
to the product line.
Starting in January,
we introduced the new 8-core XServe.
With dual 3 GHz quad-core
Xeon processors,
faster memory bandwidth,
more disk I/O throughput,
the server is over two times
faster than the previous XServe.
In benchmarks of I/O intensive activity,
like this file server benchmark,
you see it's 30% faster
than the previous XServe.
And in application benchmarks like Java,
shown here by SPECJBB,
it's over two times faster.
In February,
we added support for the Promise V-Track
RAID storage system in Apple products.
This added several key new features.
In particular,
we added support for Promise's dual
active-active RAID controllers,
4-gigabit fiber,
and support for SAS drives.
And in fact, these are three of the most
requested features last year at WWDC,
and they're now supported
on the Mac OS X platform.
In February, we also introduced a
major new upgrade to XAN,
XAN 2.
Since we introduced it back in 2005,
XAN has become the most widely deployed
SAN file system on any platform.
It's used in newsrooms and
studios throughout the world,
such as NBC, CNN, BBC, DreamWorks.
And now with XAN 2,
we've added several new features.
We've improved performance by optimizing
the layout of the file system on disk.
And you can see that together
here with the V-Track RAID,
XAN 2 can now deliver over
six simultaneous uncompressed
1080p HD streams or up to
26 simultaneous uncompressed
standard definition video streams.
In XSAN 2, we also have an all-new admin.
It makes it very easy to manage your SAN,
all the assets in your SAN.
You can manage directly the LUNs,
the computers, the volumes, the mounts.
It's much easier to
set up and administer.
And we've also added support for
pre-tuned file system configurations.
So whether you're doing high-definition
video or smaller files like in a file
server or a mail server scenario,
it's very easy to get maximum
performance out of your SAN.
Thank you.
And finally, XAMPP 2 supports Spotlight.
So now, even with a massive SAN,
you can use the features within Leopard,
such as Spotlight, CoverFlow, QuickLooks,
to search for data by content
and access it in your SAN.
So that's XAMPP 2.
So that's a quick recap of some of the
updates we've made in the past few months
in the server and storage products.
And while we've been doing this,
some of our developers
have also been busy,
and I want to do a
quick developer update,
some key activity that's
been going on there.
You may remember back
in January at Macworld,
we had two developers that
demonstrated virtualization of
Mac OS X Server in a virtual machine,
Parallels and VMware.
And since then, Parallels has announced
Parallels Server for Mac.
It supports virtualization
of Mac OS X Server,
along with other guest OSes,
such as Windows Server or Linux Server,
running on the Apple hardware.
It fully supports
symmetric multiprocessing,
so you can assign up to four
virtual cores to a virtual machine,
and it has full 64-bit support
for the guest OSes as well.
And this is currently in beta right now.
And many of you, I'm sure,
are familiar with VMware as well.
They're used throughout the Fortune 100
for virtualizing server infrastructure,
and they have also demonstrated support
for virtualizing Mac OS X Server.
They have full support for SMP and
full support for 64-bit guest OSes.
And VMware plans to release support
for virtualizing Mac OS X Server in
their upcoming Fusion 2 release.
We've also been working
closely with another developer,
IBM, as they bring their products
to the Mac OS X platform.
And so I'd like to invite
David Barnes to the stage.
And David Barnes is from the
Software Development Group at IBM,
and he's going to tell you more about
some of the work they've been doing.
Thank you, sir.
Right.
Thank you very much.
So I have to say that every time I meet
with a group of Apple developers,
I feel closer and closer every
time and never so much as
today because in IBM today,
let me tell you that
I'm a Mac user in IBM.
My vice president is a Mac user in IBM.
I'm helping a general
manager switch in IBM.
And if you don't know,
GMs in IBM are way out there.
And most importantly,
my entire development team
develops on the Mac platform.
And not just for Mac products, cool,
but across our middleware
portfolio as well,
which is really sweet because that's
where we make a lot of our money.
So there's a definite
change that's taking place.
And it is really evident in the fact
that we have our enterprise customers,
our very biggest customers
coming to us and saying,
will you please start developing
on this platform and helping
us move what's typically the
enterprise towards this platform.
So that's good news for all of us.
And that's because of the
opportunity that's there.
The thing I want to mention today,
one of many things actually,
is that we have recently shipped Informix
dynamic server for this platform,
for the Mac platform.
Now, if you're not familiar with it,
the first thing about it,
it is modular and highly scalable.
And I mean,
you can start out with a little database.
You can scale up to literally
hundreds of thousands of users.
The reliability of that
is built into the DNA.
And it's been that way with
Informix for a long time.
It's got a very loyal following.
And so things like replication,
redundancy, et cetera,
don't worry about it.
It's not bolted down the side.
It's in there.
Something that's important to this group
also is that it's terrific for being able
to feed different rich content sources,
rich multimedia, video, audio, et cetera,
along with the normal database functions,
if you will.
And the last thing,
and this is really very Apple and
Apple developer related,
is we have a lot of people who
are really interested in this.
And that's what we've just
announced that is available now.
But I'll tell you that that's not
all you're going to see from IBM.
When people in the
organization found out that.
I was going to come and talk to you.
They're like, ooh, show my stuff.
Ooh, show my stuff.
And I'm like, ooh, no.
So and that is both on this platform,
on the Mac platform,
on OS X and the server platform,
and on the iPhone platform.
So across IBM's software group,
you'll see us developing products.
Remember, we don't make applications.
We make products to enable
you to be able to develop,
to reach out to a new enterprise
that's asking us all to
help them catch the wave.
So thank you.
Thank you very much for
Apple for having me here.
And I hope you all have
a great conference.
Thanks.
So that was a quick update of our
server product and also of the developer
activity that's been going on recently.
And so now let's turn our attention to
Mac OS X Server and the upcoming release.
And today we're announcing
Snow Leopard Server.
In addition to inheriting the
enhancements that you just heard about
in the previous session in Snow Leopard,
we also have a few features
that are coming up.
And specifically,
we're doing a few things.
We're enhancing the OS foundations.
We've got some new features that we're
adding in the user-level services.
And we've got some exciting
updates with Podcast Producer to
tell you about as well.
So first of all, to start off with,
to talk about our enhancements
to the OS foundations,
I'm going to bring up Kazu Yanagihara.
Kazu?
Thank you, Greg.
Good afternoon.
So I'm going to talk about three
foundation technology areas today.
And let's start with 64-bit.
We started our transition to 64-bit
in Leopard Server and ported some
of our services to 64-bit already.
and in Snow Leopard Server,
we're moving the rest of
the services to 64-bit.
So everything from mail server,
file services, podcast producer,
X Grid and on and on.
And combined with the new 64-bit
kernel and the rest of the base OS,
the Snow Leopard Server is
going to be the whole thing
is going to be the 64-bit OS.
So why we care about this stuff?
Well, let's take a look.
The most obvious one is the
much larger address space.
So for those services that
manipulate a lot of data,
such as Informix Dynamics
Server that Dave just mentioned,
they can store more data in
the memory and avoid disk IO,
which costs about 200 times
more than accessing memory.
So those services can fetch
and serve those information to
the client much more quickly.
Number two,
making system calls on a 64-bit
system is much more efficient.
So services that make
a lot of system calls,
like some of our web components,
can benefit by moving to 64-bit.
Number three is computation.
32-bit systems have access to
four general purpose registers,
while 64-bit software gets 16,
four times as many.
Any software that makes
heavy computation,
like data encryption
algorithms or HPC applications,
can get a pretty big boost by moving
to 64-bit and running on 64-bit OS.
And the last one is a 64-bit
kernel is going to allow us to
increase some of our OS limitations.
For example,
the maximum number of processes that we
have today is around 2,500 on Leopard.
And we really couldn't up that much
higher with kernel running in 32-bit.
But in Snow Leopard Server,
we're going to be able to double, triple,
maybe quadruple that.
So that's going to help the
performance and scalability of
certain types of server applications.
So those are the four great reasons
why performance and scalability-wise
that we care and we are so excited
about this 64-bit transition.
And speaking of performance,
that's our second topic.
But before we talk about
Snow Leopard Server,
I want to talk a bit about
how we did in Leopard Server.
So what we did in the Leopard
Server project is we looked at
each of the subcomponents of OS and
really optimized them for that
new Intel hardware architecture.
We implemented tons of
features throughout the system,
some examples here.
Here's the result.
So comparing to Tiger Server,
we tripled performance.
So that was a lot of hard work,
but it really paid off.
Now, let's see what we're doing
in Snow Leopard Server.
Our number one goal is
multi-core scalability.
We are already up to eight cores and
the numbers continue to increase,
so it's critical that both our OS as
well as server software can scale and
scale to tens or even hundreds of cores.
And in addition to all this
optimization we're doing,
we're also introducing new technologies
like ground central dispatch so
we can facilitate the massive
polarization of all the tasks.
Another thing we are doing is we have
this performance list to-do list that we
didn't get to finish in Leopard Server.
So here are some examples from that list.
So we are basically going down
the list and implementing them.
Many of them are already in Snow Leopard
while the rest are still coming.
So at this point, with these changes in,
what I want to do is take a
look at how our server software
is doing on top of this new OS,
which you have on your DVD as well.
So bringing back our web server example,
since Leopard Server,
our performance already
improved by 53%. So not bad.
Here's the NFS number.
[Transcript missing]
The next topic is file system update.
So as most of you know,
our primary file system is HFS.
And we've been improving
this file system for years.
We've added support for journaling,
I believe in Jaguar.
And then we added support
for case sensitivity.
And most recently, we added ACL support.
So at this point,
it's a very solid and mature
file system that meets needs
of most of our customers.
And most, but not all.
So let's take a quick look
at something else here.
This is the storage capacity
trend in terms of terabytes.
So as you can see here,
the graph is growing exponentially
and our high-end customers have
all these huge file system volumes
that they have to deal with.
If you look at our hardware
that we ship on high end,
both the Pro lines and Server line,
they can both accommodate three or
four internal drives as well as we
can attach external rate system.
So our customers really need some
kind of tool that they can use
to manage all these spindles.
And while HFS is an excellent
file system that's suitable for
consumers and most of desktop needs,
it really wasn't designed for the
high-end configurations with lots
of spindles and large volumes.
But there is a file system
that was designed specifically
for those configurations,
and that's GFS.
So today,
I'm happy to announce that we're
including the full read-write
version of GFS in Snow Leopard,
both on the desktop and server side.
So both in the desktop
and the server side,
and along with HFS,
we can cover the full spectrum
of the customer needs.
So we're pretty excited about this.
And for those of you who are new to ZFS,
let's take a quick
look at what it can do.
It's a 128-bit file system, not 64,
but 128.
And it's very scalable.
This is the maximum number of files
that you can have on a ZFS file system.
And it's kind of hard to comprehend
this scientific notation,
so let me help you with this.
If you create 1,000 files every second,
it's going to take you over half a
million years to reach that limit.
So it's going to take our
QA team a while to test this.
I don't know if you can
ship this next year.
Here's another number.
This is the maximum volume size.
16 exabytes.
Sounds really impressive.
So if you have a volume of this
size and if you want to fill it,
you need over 1.9 billion disk
image files of dual-layer DVD.
So it's a great movie collection here.
So it's a very scalable file system,
and we don't have to worry about
hitting the ceiling anytime soon.
It also has support for redundancy,
so if one of those drives goes,
something goes wrong with those drives,
you still have access to your data.
does automatic error
detection and correction,
so normal running FSCK manually.
Of course,
has support for snapshots and clones.
And also has really nice
volume management capabilities
built right into it.
So, for example,
if your volume is getting full,
you can simply attach another hard
disk to dynamically grow that volume.
So it's a real handy
feature for the servers.
So also there's dynamic striping.
The bits are written out in stripes
to all the spindles that's out there
so we can get the most performance
out of your system without actually
doing any manual configuration.
And there are many other features
that's built into this file system.
Things like compression support
and variable block sizes and so on.
So we're really excited about this
and we're looking forward to running
our server software on top of this.
And that's my update on
the foundation layer.
So the Snow Leopard Server,
it's gonna be fully 64-bit.
And the performance is looking
pretty good so far and we're
gonna continue to work on this.
And welcome to GFS.
And now what I wanna do is invite
Chris LeCroy to the stage so he
can tell us about the enhanced
services in Snow Leopard Server.
Chris.
So thank you, Kazu.
So Kazu told you about some great
foundational things we're doing in the
operating system for Snow Leopard Server.
And I want to talk about some
of our collaborative services,
specifically communications
and collaboration.
So in Leopard Server,
we released a new Wiki server,
which was also involved,
included a blog server,
group mailing lists
and group web calendar.
And we put a lot of work into making
it really easy for people to use.
End users can easily create their own
Wikis without any administrator help.
Editing is just a matter of clicking
buttons and dealing with the very
easy-to-use WYSIWYG environment.
We made it really easy to
attach documents and images
into Wiki pages and so on.
And so in Snow Leopard Server,
we want to simplify that even more.
And actually, before I move on,
one thing that did happen is
as we deployed this at Apple,
we had what effectively was an
explosion of Wikis at Apple.
And it's really become the primary
way we get work done at Apple in
terms of working on projects,
dealing with departmental issues.
There are even clubs at
Apple that have set up Wikis.
So we use it really heavily.
And it's been actually really nice to be
able to have a customer that basically
sits right next to us and we can
actually listen to those future requests.
So with that said,
we are going to do some things
in Snow Leopard Server to make
the Wiki server more accessible.
So we're going to make the
Wiki server even better.
So first is we're going to make
it even simpler to create Wikis.
This is probably an exaggeration.
I don't think my mom actually
knows what a Wiki is,
but if she did know what a Wiki was,
it will be something
she'll be able to set up.
So we're moving all the
Wiki creation directly into the web,
which means that you'll no longer
have to launch the separate
directory app to create a Wiki.
And you'll be able to walk through
a very simple setup assistant,
answer a couple of questions,
customize your Wiki,
and in literally a minute or two,
you'll have a Wiki up and running.
up and running and
customized for your needs.
Second thing we found out at Apple is
that with all of the wikis across Apple,
it can be difficult to
find things sometimes.
So if I remember a phrase but I'm
not quite sure which wiki it was in,
I have to go from wiki to wiki
performing searches to find
the document I'm looking for.
Well, we're fixing that.
We're going to give you a single
location for doing a query,
and that query will cause the wiki
server to send back results from
all of the wiki servers that you
have access to in one location.
So we think that'll be a very
big time saver for people.
So that's cross-wiki searching.
Next is support for
QuickLooks on the Wiki server.
So as I mentioned,
the Wiki server makes it very
easy to upload any kind of
document into a Wiki page,
but the problem there is that web
browsers only know how to view and render
certain types of documents like JPEGs and
HTML and maybe PDFs if it's Safari.
So what happens is people end up having
to download those Keynote files or those
Numbers files so that they can open them
up in an application and look at them.
So what we're going to do is put
QuickLook support in the Wiki server,
which means that when
I upload a Keynote file,
upload a Numbers file or a Pages
file or any other type of file,
the Wiki server will automatically render
a web-compatible version of that document
that can be viewed directly in the Wiki,
directly in the web
browser on any platform.
So I think that'll be
a great boon to people.
And another problem that we've found with
so many wikis at Apple is that wikis,
one of the features of wikis
is that you want to be able to
monitor what's happening on them.
So you want to be able to
look for recent changes,
see which new pages have shown up.
Maybe see which pages have
been commented because it may
require some action on your part.
So we're introducing in Snow Leopard
Server a new feature called My Page,
which is essentially an aggregation
of all of the changes happening across
all of the wikis that you care about.
So you'll be able to go to one place,
one page,
see all of the new pages that have
been added to wikis you care about,
any pages that have changed
that you care about,
any comments on wikis
that you've changed about.
And then from there,
take actions such as maybe
adding them into your favorite
pages or actually going over
and editing the pages some more.
So again, this will be a big time
saver for organizations.
organizations where wikis
were really taking off.
And then lastly,
we're going to do a great deal of
work in optimizing for the iPhone.
So the existing Wiki server does
pretty well with the iPhone,
but what we want to do is take
advantage of all of the new features
coming to the iPhone in Safari,
make the pages load blazingly fast.
We're changing the interaction so
it interacts much like the iPhone.
And we think that the combination
of optimized for iPhone,
quick looks on the Wiki and My Page are
going to give you the ability to walk,
to be anywhere in the world and
get to all of the data in your
organization in a way that's very,
very simple.
So that's it for Wiki Server.
I want to talk about the
communications tool that you
guys probably all use the most.
In fact, I'm sure you use it the most.
And that's Mail Server.
So Leopard Server contains a
very full-featured Mail Server,
standards-based SMTP, IMAP, POP,
includes some very nice virus filtering
and junk mail filtering features.
And it's really just a really
nice workhorse of a server.
So for Snow Leopard Server,
we're doing a few things.
Number one is we're
improving the performance.
We're doing a complete
overhaul of the engine,
runs the Mail Server,
and we're going to really ramp up the
number of concurrent connections it can
handle and make the thing really scale.
And we think it'll really scream.
So we're excited about that.
Next, the long-standing feature request,
which is vacation auto replies.
So end users will be able to
specify a start date and an
end date for out of the office.
The server will automatically take
care of sending emails off to people,
letting people, responding to emails,
letting people know that those
people are out of the office.
That'll all be automatic.
Next is server-side mailing rules.
If you're anything like me,
you probably subscribe to
far too many mailing lists.
Because of that,
you've set up a lot of rules on your
client to shuttle those mailing list
mails off into separate directories.
That works fine when
you're on your Macintosh,
but when you move to things
like webmail or the iPhone,
those messages begin to
come into your main inbox,
which can make it really difficult
to get through your mail.
Side-mail rules will allow users
to set up rules on the server that
will do that shuttling for them.
And before the mail even hits the client,
the server will have put it into the
appropriate directories for them.
So that's mail.
And next I'd like to
move on to iCal Server.
So iCal Server is a new service
we added in Leopard Server.
It's a full calendaring
and scheduling service,
allows you to create
meetings and invite people.
It's an open source project.
We open sourced it as part of
Mac OS Forge as well as having
it in our commercial product.
And it's completely standards-based.
It's based on a standard called CalDAV.
And before I get into the features,
I want to talk a little
bit about that standard.
So the developers of -- or the authors of
the CalDAV spec did something very smart.
They took two existing standards,
WebDAV and iCalendar,
and basically mashed them
together to create a new spec.
And the value in that is this,
that they could focus on calendaring
and the details of calendaring.
They didn't have to worry about
things like access controls,
which WebDAV supports, or authentication,
which WebDAV supports, or a data format,
which iCalendar supports.
They could really focus on calendaring.
So the benefit there was that
they were able to get the
spec written very quickly,
get developers on board very quickly.
And get it pushed through the
standards bodies very quickly.
And speaking of the standards body,
I want to talk just really briefly
about an organization that really
helped to drive that standard through.
The IETF, and that is the Calendaring
and Scheduling Consortium,
or CalConnect.
It's a consortium of companies and
universities and other organizations.
Apple's a member.
[Transcript missing]
First is performance.
So like Mail Server and
many of the other services,
we're putting a great deal
of effort into improving the
performance of the calendar server.
And back in Cupertino,
we've already seen some
really great improvements.
And by the time Snow Leopard ships,
we expect to see even more.
And so we're going to really make
this into something that can really
scale to large organizations.
Next is about push notifications,
which is a little bit
related to performance.
You can clap.
All you push notification freaks.
So, as I mentioned,
CalDAV is based on WebDAV.
WebDAV is based on HTTP.
Well, HTTP is a polling protocol,
which means that client
asks for something,
the server returns it.
Client asks for something,
server returns it.
The server never really has a way
to go and push things to the server.
We are adding push notifications,
which will eliminate all this pulling.
The problem with this is that it
puts a lot of loads on servers.
When you get thousands of
clients continually asking,
is there anything new?
And in calendaring, it's never,
and it's rarely new.
99.9% of the time, it's not.
We all get maybe a handful of meeting
invitations a day if we're really busy.
But it puts an enormous
amount of strain on servers.
So push notifications
will take care of that.
And while taking the
strain off the servers,
we'll give you near instantaneous
invitations or you'll get near
instantaneous invitations.
Invitations and changes in your client.
You won't have to wait for them like
you do when you do with polling.
And then next,
when we released iCal Server,
there was one big feature request,
and that was a web-based calendar client.
Because CalDAV is a very new protocol,
there's only one shipping server,
which is iCal Server,
and one shipping client, which is iCal.
That makes it very difficult in
a cross-platform environment.
So we're going to be shipping a web-based
calendar client in Snow Leopard Server.
It's going to be a full CalDAV client.
You'll be able to do everything you
can do in a normal CalDAV client.
It's going to be very AJAX-y and very,
very rich application.
And we think this is actually going to
really help drive the standard forward.
because we plan to open
source that as well.
So it'll be available to people
to put on their platforms and
help drive the standard forward.
A little push happy.
The last thing for calendaring
server I want to talk about is
the ability to invite anyone.
So the way the CalDAV spec works,
in order for me to invite you,
you need to be a member
of that CalDAV server.
So we're adding support for inviting
people outside the CalDAV server.
What that means is that you'll be able
to drag somebody from your address book,
for example,
and the server will determine
automatically if it's somebody who's
got an account on the CalDAV server
or not or if they've got an email.
If it's email, they'll email it off
to them automatically.
If clients are using mail clients
such as Outlook or Apple Mail,
those clients will automatically send
it off to their calendaring clients,
and the whole process will be very
transparent and I think work very well.
So that'll be coming from
Snow Leopard server for iCal server.
So, I'd like to talk,
those are new features we're
adding to existing servers,
services, and I want to talk about two
new services that we're adding.
So the first one is Address Book Server.
So what does Address
Book Server allow you to do?
It basically allows you to take all of
those contacts that you keep locally
right now and move them up to a server,
which means that they're now
on the network and you can
get to them from anywhere.
In addition to that,
because they're on a server,
you can also very easily share
your contacts with your colleagues
by just dragging them into folders
and making that folder shared.
Again, we like to deal in standards.
And again,
the developers of this standard
we're using took advantage
of two existing standards,
WebDAV again, and on the other side,
vCard, and came up with a
protocol called CardDAV.
CardDAV is basically a
mashup of WebDAV and vCard.
Some of you may be asking, well,
why not use things like LDAP or
other directory services?
There are some pretty
good reasons for that.
CardDAV is designed specifically
to be a global address book.
One reason is that it doesn't
contain IT-sensitive data.
LDAP servers contain user accounts,
possibly authentication information,
all sorts of things that directory
administrators do not want intermingled
with data that users have created.
The second thing is the access
controls in LDAP are not all that rich,
especially if you want to be able
to do very fine-grained sharing
of your contacts with colleagues.
And because CardDAV uses
WebDAV... There's a very,
very rich access control
model already there.
Another problem with things like
LDAP is if you ever need to add
a new attribute onto a contact,
for example,
a Jabber ID or an OpenID URL,
which the LDAP schemas
probably don't know about,
the only way to really do that is to
update your LDAP schema on the server.
You'll probably have to also
update it on your LDAP client,
and that's not something
people are ever going to do.
So vCards don't have a fixed schema.
They're specifically designed
to allow extension by anybody.
So an end user can add a new attribute,
and everything will work just fine.
No schema change is needed.
And the last thing is that because
it's built on top of WebDAV,
which, as I mentioned, is HTTP,
makes this protocol very web-compatible.
So that means that people who are
writing rich web applications can
get into this data and use their
standard JavaScript and standard
HTTP methods to get to all this data.
They don't need a gateway to
LDAP or anything like that.
So it's going to be... We're
expecting to see a lot of people use
this protocol to build some very,
very rich collaborative social
applications on the web.
So enough protocol.
I'd like to ask Juussi-Pekka Mantere
to come up and give you a very
brief demo of Address Book Server.
Thank you, Chris.
All right.
So if we can go to demos, please.
[Transcript missing]
And let's see,
I also have multiple accounts here.
So I don't have just a single server.
I have configured a second server,
just like you would have multiple
accounts with Mail or iCal.
You can have multiple accounts
with the address book for several
different address book servers.
So here I have one address book
server that is specifically
for the developer conference.
So I have different groups here.
One is for the speaker support team,
our graphics people who are
helping us complete our slides,
and a second group for
the presentation team.
So here I have a pool of contacts
that I stay in touch with for
the duration of the conference.
And I noticed that there's a person
missing from this list of contacts.
And I seem to have a vCard for Zoe.
So for me to edit this list of contacts,
I can just drag Zoe's contact
into the shared address book,
and it's immediately available to anyone
else using the same address book server.
And any updates that I do are
also pushed back to the server,
and anyone connecting to that
server again will get the
most up-to-date information.
So I can actually edit Zoe's contact,
and let's say we want
to add her a picture.
So we can just drag her picture in here.
And we can also change her name.
So we can change her,
let's say give her a chatber
ID on our iChat server here.
So let's call it Zoe@chat, WWDC,
Apple.com.
And that's it.
So any edits that I just made
will now be pushed to the server,
and other clients will get that
immediately downloaded when they
connect to the server the next time.
So this is address book server.
And another thing with address book
server with the accounts is that these
contacts are stored for a certain time.
So they're stored for offline use.
So even if I'm disconnected
from the network,
any contacts that I see here
are actually cached for offline.
So even when I'm not on the network,
I'm on the plane or on a remote island,
I still have these
contacts accessible to me.
So I can still at least compose
email or let's say send SMS messages
to the contacts that I have when
they're cached for offline use.
So that's a brief overview
of the address book server,
and we have a session tomorrow.
So if you want to know more about that,
please do.
If you want to know more details
about the address book server,
please come to our session at 2:00.
And that's it.
And back to Chris.
Thank you.
The address book server allows you
to put your contacts on a server.
You can share them with people.
It works when you're offline
and it works with other
applications within the system.
And in the vein of
driving standards again,
again we're going to open source
this project because we really
want to drive card data as the
standard for global address books.
And the last new feature I'd like
to talk about is remote access.
So we're adding a new proxy
service into Mac OS X Server for
Snow Leopard that will allow you
to configure your system so that
people can connect to their email,
their calendaring system,
their address book server,
select websites without
VPN in a very secure fashion.
This is a service you would generally
put into your DMZ or your border zone.
That'll be coming in
Snow Leopard as well.
So.
We've talked about some new features
coming to our existing servers,
the Wiki server,
Mail server and the Calendar server,
getting some great new features.
And we have two new services
to Snow Leopard server,
the Address Book server,
which will be open sourced and
completely standards-based,
and our new remote access
functionality in Snow Leopard server.
That's all I've got today,
and thank you for
letting me talk with you.
And I'd like to bring Kazu back
up to talk about... I need to wait
for Kazu to get his microphone on.
There he is.
To talk about some very exciting
things happening with Podcast Producer.
Thank you, guys.
Hello again.
So, podcast producer.
It's a new feature we introduced
in Leopard Server last year,
but before we talk about it,
I want to talk a little bit
about podcasting in general.
It's background information.
How many of you listen
to or watch podcasts?
Pretty good, right?
So you're one of those 30.3
million people in the US.
So as you can see here,
the popularity of podcasting is
continuing to grow at a really good pace.
And more and more people
are producing podcasts.
Certainly in all the major
media companies are doing that,
more and more of that.
And there are some new ones
that's becoming really popular.
Enterprises uses podcasting for both
external communication to the public
as well as for internal consumption for
things like employee training videos.
And many companies are
starting to do that.
And of course,
it's really exploding in higher
education with all the students
carrying iPods everywhere.
And here at Apple, we are fully embracing
this technology as well.
We, of course, have podcasting built
right into the iTunes app.
And we've created a dedicated
forum for podcasting for the
higher education communities.
So it's really at the
core of Apple's business.
On the hardware front,
every single system that we
ship is podcasting-ready,
the Macintosh, iPods, iPhone, Apple TV.
But in this big picture,
there was one thing that was missing,
and that's a tool that businesses
and institutions could use to produce
podcasts in volume while meeting all
these requirements around scalability,
security, flexibility to fit into
existing infrastructure,
and so on.
And podcasts produced a field that whole.
It's a complete end-to-end solution that
lets you capture audio and video and
automatically push it out to the server,
which in turn pushes it down
to the grid for processing.
It does things like adding watermarks,
appending intro movie,
and encoding into different
file formats and screen sizes.
And when that's done,
it automatically gets pushed out
to the destinations of your choice,
which may be iTunes or Web Server,
Wikiserver,
or any other publishing system.
And while that's under the hood,
it's really powerful and sophisticated.
It's really easy for the end-user.
All they need to do is just a few
clicks to start and stop the recording.
You select the workflow, click OK,
and that's it.
When the processing is done,
the podcast is available to the end-user
for their own consumption automatically.
So this feature was received
very well by our customers,
especially those in higher education,
and many of them are deploying it today.
And what I'm going to do now
is to invite a guest speaker,
Mr.
James Partridge from Oxford,
so he can tell us about the
features that we're using.
about what they are doing as
podcast producer at Oxford.
James?
[Transcript missing]
So after evaluating a
number of different options,
we've settled on Podcast Producer because
we feel that it provides us with
the flexibility that we really
need within this environment.
The extensible architecture of
Podcast Producer integrates quite well,
very quite easily into our environment.
So what we're doing is we're
concentrating on Podcast Producer and
Telestream's episode podcast as our
kind of core media production engine.
And this leaves us to focus on the entry
and exit points for Podcast Producer.
And in order to do this,
we're using our existing
Open AFS service,
which we've now extended with a
kind of special podcasting space.
And as this uses the
MIT KDC for authentication,
this gives us the closest we can get to
a kind of university-wide access point.
So, very broadly speaking,
and this is of course simplified,
this is how we expect
the process to work.
So, content can be captured from any one
of a number of different sources.
There's going to be plenty of lecturers
who are often giving tutorials.
They're in their own offices and rooms,
and they'll be doing their own system.
And we also have
classroom capture points,
of course.
And then we'd have material from
our media production services,
which is usually very
high-profile speakers.
the Dalai Lama a week or two back,
that kind of thing.
Now,
all of this content is essentially going
to be dumped into the Open AFS system.
We expect this content
to come in several forms.
It'll be up to people where possible.
They'll pick a workflow that will
output things the way they want.
Or an alternative would be that they
would submit a finished podcast.
Or we also expect people to
just give us the raw materials,
and we'll have a post-production
team in the computing service
who will work on that.
Now, in terms of the destinations
for this content,
essentially we see three
possible paths at the moment.
The first one is that we anticipate that,
well, we know, in fact,
that a reasonable number of colleges and
departments will just want the material
recycled back to their own web servers
for their own internal departmental use.
A second alternative is
what we call Oxitems,
which is essentially our own
internal RSS feed aggregator.
We built this before we really knew
that iTunes U was coming to Europe,
but it's still very
useful for our purposes.
If content is submitted to Oxitems,
there'll also be another option that
it can be sent to iTunes U as well.
As things currently stand,
we've got a large part of this
infrastructure already in place and
we'll be extending it through the summer,
we hope, resources permitting.
There's training programs
already underway,
particularly aimed at the faculty.
Some of our faculty are
fairly elderly and infirm,
and they require quite a lot of support.
And some of the students, too.
And so we've got training
programs in place,
and where possible,
we'll be putting in podcasting stations
in lecture rooms and trying to push
that out across the university.
We also already have a large number of
RSS feeds already in our Oxitem system.
They're already available for students.
And essentially,
we are planning to join iTunes
U in September of this year.
We just missed the initial launch.
But once we join iTunes U,
then all of the existing feeds should
be redirected up there as well.
And all being well,
we'll hope to extend this
service through 2009.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, James.
So we are really thrilled with
all these activities happening
around Podcast Producer and we
want to keep this momentum going.
So what we are doing in
Snow Leopard Server is we are
introducing Podcast Producer 2,
a brand new version of Podcaster
with a bunch of new features.
So, and I don't have time to
talk about everything,
but I want to talk about a few of them.
And by the way,
every single one of them that I'm going
to talk about today is in response
to all this great feedback that we've
been receiving from our customers.
The first feature is
called Podcast Library.
Podcast Producer 2 automatically
archives all the submitted
and generated media files for
long-term storage and organization.
And you can issue remote
search commands to it,
and the library automatically
generates Atom Feed and also
serves the podcast to you.
So this means you no longer have to
have a separate publishing server.
You can do everything
within Podcast Producer.
And with this feature and integration
of Podcast Producer 2 and iTunes U,
now you can host iTunes U content locally
on your own server instead of pushing
it to the Apple server if you want to.
The second feature is high availability.
This is because many of our
customers deploy Podcast Producer as
a mission-critical service.
With Podcast Producer 2,
you can now configure active/passive
failover configuration for both
Podcast Producer Server and
X Grid Controller.
So if you accidentally
spill coffee on your server,
the backup automatically comes up.
And then during the transition,
all the active jobs as well
as all the pending jobs are
automatically moved over,
so it's going to be completely
transparent to the end users.
[Transcript missing]
The most frequently used or usage
pattern for the podcast producer out
there today is capturing lectures,
obviously.
So with Podcast Producer 2,
you can capture both the video of
the speaker and the presentation on
the screen and have it automatically
create picture-in-picture videos.
And of course,
you have the option to select different
types of transitions and so on.
And this is one of the most
frequently requested features,
so here you go.
The last but not the least,
Podcast Producer 2 includes
a new workflow editor.
[Transcript missing]
So I'm really excited to be here,
to be able to show you the new
Podcast Producer Workflow Editor.
But before that,
I'd like to make sure that
everybody's on the same page
about what a workflow actually is.
So think of a podcast
producer workflow as a recipe.
It's the podcasting recipe.
So as in any recipe,
you have your list of ingredients.
So these are the different resources
the podcast reader system uses
to produce your final content.
Examples are like an intro video
or a watermark image that you
want to brand your content with.
But in the recipe,
you don't just have ingredients.
You also have instructions.
Instructions are a list of tasks
that have to be accomplished in a
certain order to produce your content.
Same thing for podcast
producer workflows.
The idea here is that you
also have order in them,
right?
So you have to do certain
tasks in a certain order.
You can't bake your bread
before you've made your dough.
There are tons of different tasks
that a podcast producer can do,
but we've kind of brought them
down and broken it down into
three main categories of tasks,
and I'm going to walk you
through those right now.
The first is mixing your content.
This is where you have your intro video,
your watermark image,
and you're just going to throw
it all together and produce your
content and make what you want
your final result to look like.
Once you have this, you have your dough.
So then you want to bake it, right?
So this is where you set the different
encoding settings and you encode your
content to flatten out that content
to the different types you want to.
For example, you might want to encode
to an audio-only format,
an iPod video format, and maybe a higher
definition Apple TV format.
Once you've baked your
content or you have your food,
right, for any kind of food, well,
you have to serve it.
So this is where the publishing comes in.
You have to publish your content.
So this might be putting it into
some RSS feed or an Atom feed or just
uploading to a certain blog server.
So to recap real quick,
you have to mix your content, bake it,
and serve it.
So this is what a podcast research
workflow actually looks like.
So that's great, but let's see how we
can actually build one.
So this is the fun part.
Now I get to show you one of the most
exciting things I've ever worked on,
which is the
Podcast Producer Workflow Editor.
So we're going to move over
here to the demo machine,
and I'm going to launch
the Workflow Editor.
And you can see that we've now
created a workflow creation path.
And we're going to walk you through
seven different stages in order to create
your new podcast producer workflow.
So I'm just going to walk you
through those now and show you
how easy we've made it for you.
I'm going to start off
with the information panel.
And the first information I have
to give the workflow is its name.
This is the name that is going
to end up in Podcast Capture and
that your submitting users are
going to see when they choose the
workflow they want to submit to.
So we're going to call this
"My First Workflow." Can set
some copyright information.
Can give it a little description
to help the end users choose which
workflow they want to submit to.
Once we've done that,
we can now move to our
first active stage.
This, as I was just talking about,
we were talking about the
mixing of your content.
So we've broken this down
into two separate stages,
the import stage and the edit stage.
So in the first, in the import stage,
this is your funnel.
This is where you define what kind
of content your podcast producer
workflow is going to accept.
It can either accept, as you see here,
a single QuickTime movie in
SpotSource or two videos.
The dual video input source is the
feature Kazir just talked about,
that we now support picture-in-picture.
Since it's a new feature,
I'm just going to leave
that one selected.
and move to the editing stage.
This is where I get to brand my content.
You can see that there are four
different elements here on the screen.
We have the first, the intro video here.
We then have the bumper title.
We then have the main content that
I can overlay a watermark on or
maybe some titling information.
I'll show you that.
And the outro video.
So I really just want to change
real quickly the intro video.
So I'm going to grab my
introduction video here,
drop it onto the intro video element.
And you can see here
that I can skim through,
like in iPhoto,
I can skim through to get a preview
of what the content in there is.
My art department has also
supplied me with a watermark,
and I'm just going to drag
and drop this onto my content,
and now my content is watermarked.
I showed you the skimming so I can skim
over these different elements to give
me a preview of how they're playing.
I also have the preview button here.
So if I click this,
this will stitch all the different
elements together and preview what the
main content will actually look like.
The import stage is providing
some sample video of what this
workflow will actually look like.
So if I skim through here,
there's some sample content here too
that shows me what it'll look like.
And then if we skim all
the way here to the end,
I get my outro video.
So that's the editing stage.
If we now move to the export stage,
this is where the baking that we
were talking about just occurs.
By default,
the workflow editor has chosen a iPod
video format and an iPod audio format.
So these are, by default,
the two export configurations
that you'll have.
But maybe I want to add maybe a
higher definition export setting.
So all I have to do here
is click the plus button,
choose QuickTime, choose, let's say,
Apple TV for here in the pop-up,
and there you go.
I've now added a encoding
to Apple TV in my workflow.
So any--so all my output will
be outputted to iPod video,
an audio only, and an Apple TV version.
Once I'm done baking my content,
I can now move to the
distribution of my content.
So we've also broken this
down into two stages.
You have your publish stage
and your notification stage.
So publish, we're by default publishing
to the podcast library,
which is a new feature
in Podcast Producer 2.
But I also have a selection of
other destinations I can publish to.
And in this case,
I want to publish to iTunes U,
for example.
So I'm just going to add iTunes U.
Get to choose which produced
video I want to publish.
We're going to choose the
Apple TV version here.
Then asks me for some iTunes
U specific information.
So my site address is
podcastproducer.apple.com.
My tab ID is 2020.
And then I just have to
enter my credentials.
Once I've added this information,
I just click Done here,
and now this workflow will
upload the Apple TV version to
iTunes U for me automatically.
Now that I'm done with my publish stage,
I can move on to notification.
And by default here,
the Podcast Producer Workflow Editor will
send an email to the administrator
and to the submitting user informing
them that the Podcast Producer Workflow
has completed successfully.
There are also other options,
like I can send an iChat
message if I would want to.
The last step here gives me a quick
overlook and an overview of my
workflow and just a quick idea of
the complexity of this workflow.
Now that I'm done here,
I can just go up to File, Save.
The workflow editor now is
prompting me for a master password.
What you saw in the iTunes U step,
we gave it some credential information.
This is sensitive data that
we don't just want to have in
clear text in the workflow.
So we're going to encrypt
this information with a
master password for you.
So we'll just leave this password here.
And I will save this to the desktop,
my first workflow.
And we'll click save.
And now the workflow is on my desktop.
And that's great,
but now if I want to deploy my workflow,
how do I get it up to the server?
Well, you may have seen when
I was in file here,
there is an upload workflow.
By selecting this option,
I can now specify where my podcast
producer server actually is,
a admin username and credentials,
and my workflow will automatically be
deployed to the podcast producer system.
So that's how easy it is to make a
workflow now with a workflow editor.
What I'd like to show you now is
a sample output from the-- what is
the sample output of this workflow.
So we ran a video through this workflow,
and it's already on
iTunes U waiting for us,
so why don't we just go there now.
And I think it's in
History of Mathematics.
So let's just access that page here.
And I believe it was History of Pi.
So let's just get that video here.
And now in my History of
Mathematics playlist,
I can play it back.
So here you see the intro
video that we added.
The bumper title.
I want to talk to you today
about two of my favorite things,
AppleScript and math.
And when I was learning AppleScript,
I came across this list of
predefined variables in the language.
And one of them kind of left
off the page at me a little bit.
I mean, really, pi?
What is pi doing on a list of variables?
It's not a variable, it's a constant.
It's the ratio of the circumference
of a circle to the diameter of
every circle in the universe.
It's got the same value of pi, 3.14159.
You know what it is.
But in AppleScript,
AppleScript knows that,
but you can also change it.
And it finally occurred to me
that this might actually be
useful in a couple of situations.
For instance, depending on when and where
you're writing your AppleScripts,
back in the day,
somebody created a molten sea that was
30 cubits around and 10 cubits across.
So if you were doing biblical
AppleScript programming,
you might start off your
AppleScript like this.
Set pi to 30 divided by 10.
You want to move forward a little bit.
In Indiana in 1897,
they unanimously passed a bill
declaring that in Indiana,
the value of pi was going to be 3.2.
So every AppleScript programmer back then
in Indiana started their script this way.
Set pi to 3.2.
So we're running out of time here,
so I'm just going to pause it here,
and I encourage you to come
to our session on Wednesday,
and we will play the whole video for you.
So there you got a little preview
of what the picture-in-picture
looks like and also how easy it
is to create a podcast producer
workflow now with a workflow editor.
So that's it.
Thank you very much and back to you,
Kazu.
Thank you, Kjell.
Back to the presentation, please.
Okay, so we've got very exciting feature
sets for Podcast Producer 2.
We've got the Podcast Library,
failover support, and picture-in-picture,
and the last one is the
visual workflow editor.
But we do have a number of other
features that we just didn't
have time to talk about today.
For example, we do have complete Corvus
authentication support just for James.
So if you're interested
in this technology,
there are a few sessions
that are dedicated,
as Kjell mentioned.
On Wednesday at 9 o'clock,
we're going to talk about all the
features of Podcast Producer 2 in detail,
including the one we didn't
talk about today here.
And on Thursday at 10.30,
Kjell and another engineer is going
to talk about custom workflows,
and they have some really,
really cool demos.
So in fact,
they're so cool that they didn't want
to do it here because they wanted
to keep it for their own session.
So please go check them out.
And that's all I had
for Podcast Producer,
so now I'd like to give
the stage back to Greg.
Thank you.
Thanks, Kazu.
So that's Snow Leopard Server.
So just to recap,
we've enhanced the foundations,
fully 64-bit,
even more performance in introducing ZFS.
We have some great new
features in the Wiki,
Mail Server and iCal Server,
and we've introduced the Address
Book Server and Podcast Producer 2
with the Podcast Library,
dual-source video and
easy workflow editing.
There's a lot more that we're
going to be talking about these
services throughout the week,
so please come to the sessions and labs.
We hope to see you there,
and thank you all for attending.
I hope you have a very good WWDC.